---
layout: post
title: Peace
description: "The importance of days without work."
modified: 2013-12-14
category: articles
tags: [work/life balance, habits, routine]
image:
---

### When I began working for myself full-time I worked around the clock. ###

Remarkably, it's easy to do. Coffee flowing, trance sets back-to-back-to-back, a standing desk for dance parties, complete control over the list of tasks for a one-man shop. Waking at 5a and working until 10p or midnight happened more times than I'd like to admit. The best part of the whole thing is that I didn't even get that much done. I was too tired and single-minded to approach the tasks I had to complete intelligently.

I can't recall quite when I shifted over, but I think it was late spring and early summer of this year that I realized I need to be intentional about my time management. Much of my thinking was influnced by the timely reading of [Manage Your Day-to-Day](http://99u.com/book/manage-your-day-to-day-2). I enacted and maintain three things:

#### Two Full Weekend Days of Computer-less Time ####

At the time it seemed impossible, but integrating this practice into my work has proven wildly powerful. The mental space a full weekend off the keyboard and screen enables me to come back with new ideas, fresh insights, and better work ethic for the tasks I have on Monday.

#### Functional Chunks of Work Throughout the Day ####

I've found I work well in discrete ninety minute chunks. So I set a timer and work intensely on one set of tasks at a time for ninety minutes. Then I take a break of at least fifteen minutes and at most ninety minutes. I get up and walk away from the machine. A break tooling around on the internet isn't a break. Movement, people, physical world changes are vital for those shifts.

#### Early Rise ####

I'm a morning person. If I wake up later than 8a then the day is essentially over. There is no hope. So I maintain a routine that allows me to start work around 5:15a every morning. This means getting to bed at a reasonable hour, exercising and eating well so my sleep is actually refreshing, and patterning my social engagements around this schedule. Sure, I'll have the occasional late night for EDM concerts or vitally epic nights of conversation and brew with good people, but I'll still wake up before 7a and take a nap to compensate.